The Martyr - St. Stephens Martyr is a monthly publication which began in 2000 by our parish youth league. The intention of this publication it to further nourish the spiritual lives of our parishoners and also to keep them updated with church affairs. Fortunately, not only the youth, but every member has contributed in some way to this endeavor. This support has made the St. Stephens Martyr, not just a publication of the youth, but a publication of the parish as a whole. The St. Stephen's Martyr is being runned with the continual blessings and prayers of our Vicar, The Rev. Fr. Dr. C.K. Rajan and with the widespread prayerful support and contributions from our parishioners. Their prayers and contributions have provided the foreground for the success of the bulletin in our church. The St. Stephens Bulletin is the result of hard work and we as a parish should be proud of what we have accomplished: "A unified voice for our church".

Prayer Group - The St. Stephens prayer group has matured over the years in several ways. Our prayer group has been thriving of late considering the increased participation and attendance by our many members. Prayer meetings usually begin with songs led by our choir. The main speaker(s) for each day then starts off the group in his/her own way. Our primary objective is to learn more about the one true Apostolic and uncorrupt faith,   the Holy Bible, and our Holy Fathers who have established the faith. The progress made so far is very encouraging. There are also many events that tie in with our prayer group. We have annual Lenten Retreats where confession has been offered for all those who wanted to receive it. We also conduct Family & Youth conventions during the summer and those who attended these events described it as being a very helpful and fulfilling experience. The newest event that is to take place is our Perunal day (parish anniversary) of St. Stephen church.

Choir - "O come, let us sing unto the Lord: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation."-Psalms 95 The St. Stephen's choir leads our parish in our Holy Qurbana, Retreats, Conventions, other liturgical services and parish functions, in both English and Malayalam. Our choir was established as a result of the hard work and dedication of our parishioners. Our choir first "debuted" in 1995 for our English Holy Qurbana, and then recently in 2002 for our Malayalam Holy Qurbana. The St. Stephen's Choir adds to the richness of our beautiful and melodious Orthodox service, and leads to greater participation from our younger generations and a deeper experience of t our Holy Sacraments. 

A recent venture our Choir has taken on, is recording their first Christian Devotional Song CD labeled  “Krupadanam”.  For information on purchasing this awe inspiring CD, please contact us via email at StStephensChurch@hotmail.com

Sunday School - St. Stephens Sunday school is comprised of over hundred children, twelve teachers and many dedicated parents with the support of our inspirational priest Rev. Fr. Dr. C.K Rajan. We are united in our mission to teach our children about the Orthodox Faith and how to walk in the footsteps of our Lord Jesus Christ. The children are expected to come to Sunday school prepared, as they would attend regular school. There is a general syllabus that the teachers follow as instructed by the Diocesan Sunday School Association. Our Sunday school has yearly exams during the beginning of the summer given by the respective teachers. Those students who are among the head of the class are rewarded for their extraordinary work. The Sunday school students are also required to take standardized Diocesan exams in the fifth, eighth and tenth grade level. The Church also has "Sunday School Days"; these are days that are set-aside for the Sunday school children to demonstrate their talents. We have competition in song, story telling, speech, bible verses, etc. Those students who win from the church in each grade level go on to compete in the Diocesan level. There have been many students who have gone on to compete in the Diocesan level and won for the church. We are proud to say that St. Stephens Sunday school has graduated many influential people in our Indian Orthodox community. The Sunday school empowers the children with the knowledge of God. This knowledge is one that is most useful and will be with them forever.

Youth League – The St. Stephens youth group has grown tremendously over the years in several ways. Our youth group has been thriving of late considering the increased participation and attendance by our many members. Youth prayer meetings usually begin with songs and prayers by various participants. The main speaker for each day then starts off the group in his/her own way. Usually each prayer meeting is conducted on a theme chosen by the leader, and a small discussion takes place for the interchange of ideas. Our primary objective is to attend to the youths’ spiritual needs, and then discuss the many activities that the youth league sponsors. The group has become very open, and therefore each of the members is comfortable with expressing their ideas during these meetings. Our youth league is an up and coming group that is just starting to coalesce. The progress made so far is very encouraging.

We conduct monthly meetings on the third Saturday evening of every month at 6:00pm at the chapel and welcome all to attend.  For more information about our youth league, please contact our Youth Secretary, Binay Eapen at YouthSecretary@StStephensNY.
